---
title: "Architect?"
date: 2023-10-23T20:00:00-05:00
draft: false
summary: "What is architect?"
---
 
 I’ve never been much for titles. When I was relabeled as a senior engineer, I still did the same
 things, I was still me. I’ve never actually held the title of architect, but I feel it’s the one
 that describes what I do best.

> It doesn't say much. Only 'Howard Roark, Architect.' But it's like those mottoes men carved over
> the entrance of a castle and died for.

As software developers, we borrow a lot from other engineering disciplines.  As with the terms
Engineer and Architect.

> The separation of design and construction into phases is a hangover from civil engineering. It has
> the baked in assumption that the design phase is relatively cheap, short and somewhat
> unpredictable the construction phase is expensive, long and predictable. The root problem is the
> assumption that specifications can be validated for correctness, like a blueprint for a bridge
> can.

When building physically, blueprints are the plans and the construction is final.  In software, the
plans become the delivered product.  A product that not only can change, but is expected to change.

Architects in software take abstract design ideas and give them a shape.  They begin the plan by
organizing requirements into a sub-structure that engineering is built on top of.  

> "Where did you learn to handle it like that, Red?"
> 
> "Oh, I've been an electrician, and a plumber, and a rivet catcher, and many other things."
> 
> "Gonna be an architect?"
> 
> "Yes."
